## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
|---------------|----------------|--------------|------------|-------------------------|
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 1.07.03      | 1.09.02    | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [ ] Mic mute
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Physical webcam shutter
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Fan 100% toggle
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- Mic mute currently does LCD disable instead of mic mute (this is the default on the Sager model)

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A (x2)
- [x] Right USB Type C TB (x2)
- [x] Rear Ethernet (x2)
- [ ] Thunderbolt devices plugged in before suspend do not block suspend
- [x] Thunderbolt devices plugged in during suspend do not block resume
- [x] MicroSD card slot
- [ ] Combo jack headphones
- [ ] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [ ] Internal speakers
- [ ] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- Internal speakers show up in Settings, but don't ever seem to make any sound.
- Combo headset mic doesn't work. There is no autodetection and no prompt to switch between headphone and headset.
- Headphones are detected, but I don't hear any sound through them.
- Having a TBT dock plugged in blocks suspend. Power button light blinks off briefly, then back on and the system doesn't actually suspend.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [ ] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [ ] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [ ] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [ ] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- External displays don't work at all in Hybrid mode. This might be because the iGPU is running in llvmpipe mode.
- Audio over USB-C/DP doesn't work. No sound device is added for the display. Sound over HDMI is fine though.
- Clamshell mode with external displays (both over HDMI and USB-C) is buggy. Screen distorts, mouse cursor moves, but nothing is interactable. Opening the lid restores functionality. Booting in clamshell mode leaves external displays blank, and I have to open the lid to decrypt and log in.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [ ] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [ ] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [ ] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [ ] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend notes and issues

- Highest power state shown in powertop is C3

## Hardware compatibility

- [ ] RAM
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
    - [ ] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
- [ ] Storage
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [ ] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [x] No TPM errors in dmesg & journalctl logs after 150 suspends
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- SATA drives are not supported
- WD Blue drive makes wifi disappear after suspend/resume. So does WD Green SN350 and a PNY CS2310 8tb.
