## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version       | EC Version         | Kernel Version |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | -------------- |
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 2023-10-13_5d997d1 | 2023-10-13_5d997d1 | 6.5.6-76060506 |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [ ] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- Pressing or holding the power button sometimes turns the machine on when the lid is closed.
    - This is not a regression: https://github.com/system76/ec/issues/233 

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click
- [X] Middle click (three finger tap/click)

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Left USB Type A
- [X] Right USB Type A
- [X] Left USB Type-C w/ Thunderbolt (front)
- [X] Left USB Type-C (back)
- [X] MicroSD card slot
- [X] Headphone jack
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Type-C DP
- [X] Type-C DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- No notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] WiFi connects with expected performance
- [X] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [X] Bluetooth speaker

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & power

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [X] 150 suspend successful
- [X] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [X] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards.
- [X] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [X] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [ ] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend & power notes and issues

- The system does not go into C8; it only gets as low as C3 while idling. Tested & confirmed this is not a regression (also happens on currently released version, `b337ac6`).

## Hardware compatibility

- [X] RAM
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
        - [X] 1 x 8GB
        - [X] 2 x 32GB
- [X] Storage
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Any M.2 SATA drive: Western Digital Green 240GB WDS240G2G0B-00EPW0
            - [X] Slot 1
    - [X] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
                - Read: 2960, 842, 519, 32.
                - Write: 1874, 480, 1058, 107.
            - [X] Slot 2
                - Read: 2494, 958, 514, 35.
                - Write: 2283, 623, 1075, 141.
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
                - Read: 2808, 948, 872, 69.
                - Write: 2442, 583, 267, 107.
            - [X] Slot 2
                - Read: 5596, 1256, 916, 73.
                - Write: 3245, 732, 262, 121.
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
                - Read: 2407, 799, 422, 28.
                - Write: 1587, 445, 311, 97.
            - [X] Slot 2
                - Read: 2364, 751, 481, 30.
                - Write: 1346, 495, 312, 95.
        - [X] Any M.2 SATA drive: Samsung 850 EVO
            - [X] Slot 1
                - Read: 529, 279, 13, 5.
                - Write: 362, 228, 99, 21.
- [X] TPM
    - [X] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
