## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version       | EC Version         | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 20.04 | 2020-08-13_7e39821 | 2020-08-13_7e39821 | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] SD card slot
- [X] Back-Left USB Type A
- [X] Front-Left USB Type A
- [X] Right USB Type A
- [X] Back-Right USB Type C
- [X] Front-Right USB Type C
- [ ] Back USB Type C (with Thunderbolt)
- [X] Headphone jack
- [X] Microphone jack
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [ ] S/PDIF jack
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- Thunderbolt device not working and Settings -> Thunderbolt shows "No Thunderbolt support."
- Don't have an S/PDIF cable to test with.
- The first increment of volume for the headset doesn't seem to start playing audio, it starts working with the second increment.

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Mini DisplayPort 1
- [ ] Mini DisplayPort 1 audio
- [X] Mini DisplayPort 2
- [ ] Mini DisplayPort 2 audio
- [X] Type C DisplayPort
- [X] Type C DisplayPort audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [ ] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- Neither Mini DisplayPort had audio output as an option. HDMI audio did work.
- DisplayPort over USB-C (on right side of machine) did not work. DisplayPort over USB-C did work for the Thunderbolt port on the back, with audio.
- DisplayPort daisy-chaining did not work properly when connected via USB-C (all daisy-chained displays were mirrored and only one showed up in Settings.)
- DisplayPort daisy-chaining worked properly with the outer-most Mini DisplayPort, but did not work at all with the inner-most Mini DisplayPort (only the first display in the chain had output with inner-most Mini DisplayPort.)
- Decryption prompt did not show up on external displays.
- Booting with external displays connected sometimes leads to a blank screen after decryption-- pressing ESC shows "A start job is running for Hold until boot process finishes up" with no time limit. When this issue does not occur, there is a lot of flickering before GDM displays.

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [X] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [X] Bluetooth mouse
- [X] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [X] 150 suspend successful
- [X] System prompts and eventually suspends on depleted battery

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes
