## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
| COMEPLETE     | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | e5c3632      | e5c3632    | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute mic
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
    - [x] Bottom-right click
    - [x] Two-finger click
- [x] Middle click
    - [x] Bottom-middle click
    - [x] Three-finger click
- [x] Tap to click
    - [x] Left click
    - [x] Right click
    - [X] Middle click
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces


### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] Back USB Type C
- [x] Micro SD card slot
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Microphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Mini display port
- [x] Mini display port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [~] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
    - [x] Reboot
    - [x] Cold Boot
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected
    - [x] Reboot
    - [x] Cold Boot

### Displays notes and issues

- Lid Closed w/
    - HDMI: Reaches user session but is interrupted by suspends in the process. System is never unrecoverable though.
    - Mini-DP: decrypts, hangs before login.
    - USB-C/DP: decrypts, suspends before login, wakes and logs in.
- These issues seem to be tied to nvidia, are have not constituted a blocker for release previously (nor in this case) due to several factors:
    - The power button is not externally mounted when the system is closed, making it unlikely that booting with exclusively an external monitor will be a typical use case.
    - The issues is most severe on the Mini-DP port, and elsewhere is fully and reliably recoverable. This means it should only effect a subset of users a subset of times.
    - The issue is around boot, meaning that loss of data is incredibly unlikely, as the system was previously in a shutdown state. 

## Thunderbolt

- [x] Connects to a thunderbolt dock
- [x] Supports video-out through thunderbolt dock
- [x] Networking over thunderbolt works
- [x] Peripherals work over thunderbolt
- [ ] Suspends and resumes correctly with thunderbolt dock attached
    - [x] System suspends/resumes
    - [ ] Thunderbolt dock reacquires

## Thunderbolt notes

- Thunderbolt does not seem to re-acquire after resume. However, unplugging and re-plugging the dock does work.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth notes

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
