## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
| INCOMPLETE    | Ubuntu 22.04   | 799ed79      | 799ed79    | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- Airplane mode does not persist across sleep cycles.

## Touchpad

- [ ] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [ ] Left click
- [ ] Right click
    - [ ] Bottom-right click
    - [ ] Two-finger click
- [ ] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [ ] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- The Four Finger paradigm doesn't work in Ubuntu 22.04, nor does three-finger workspace change after system76 packages are installed.

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [ ] Left USB Type A
- [ ] Right USB Type C
- [ ] Back USB Type C
- [ ] SD card slot
- [ ] Headphone jack
- [ ] Microphone jack
- [ ] Combo jack headphones
- [ ] Combo jack mic
- [ ] Internal mic
- [ ] Internal speakers
- [ ] spdif jack
- [ ] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [ ] HDMI port
- [ ] HDMI port audio
- [ ] Mini display port
- [ ] Mini display port audio
- [ ] Type C DP
- [ ] Type C DP audio
- [ ] Dual external display + internal
- [ ] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [ ] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [ ] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- No notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [ ] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [ ] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [ ] Bluetooth speaker
- [ ] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [ ] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [ ] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected.

### Suspend notes and issues

- Ubuntu is failing the 150 suspend test. With fwts version `23.03.00-0ubuntu1-j` (from the `firmware-testing-team/ppa-fwts-stable ppa`) it was set to run the tests over night with `sudo fwts s3 --s3-multiple 150 --s3-min-delay 5 --s3-max-delay 10`. Upon returning in the morning, the unit was in a suspended state. Upon waking, fwts showed the test in progress and that it had failed to complete even a single suspend test cycle. The system did immediately sleep again, and upon further waking reported a single completed cycle. 

## Hardware compatibility

- [ ] RAM
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [ ] Storage
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [ ] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [ ] TPM
    - [ ] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
