## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version | BIOS Version        | EC Version          | Before or after suspend |
|---------------|------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop 22.04  | 2025-03-19\_3148651 | 2025-03-19\_3148651 | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Mic mute
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard backlight level cycle
- [x] Fan 100% toggle

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)

### Touchpad notes and issues

- Touchpad doesn't work until kernel is updated to 6.12. Updated ISOs and images will make this a non-issue.

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] Thunderbolt devices plugged in before suspend do not block suspend
- [x] Thunderbolt devices plugged in during suspend do not block resume
- [x] SD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- Mesa 24 update was used for this testing. It is needed for ARL graphics support.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [ ] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [ ] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend notes and issues

- I'm only seeing C1 and C2 power states in powertop.

## Hardware compatibility

- [ ] RAM
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
    - [x] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
- [ ] Storage
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [ ] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [ ] TPM
    - [ ] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [x] No TPM errors in dmesg & journalctl logs after 150 suspends
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- System's graphics fail if I boot with a single SODIMM installed. OS still comes up and I can SSH into it.
- No `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory is present
