## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version              | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------------- | ---------- | ----------------------- |
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 20.04 | 2020-12-03_f4729b9-dirty  |            | Before                  |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard/ backlight on/off and brightness 

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [x] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [x] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [x] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- While the system does not fully suspend when a USB PD display is plugged in, the power button appears to function correctly when plugged in and unplugged and the LCD closed.

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click (two finger click)
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Left USB Type C
- [x] Mini SD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [ ] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- No notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] System prompts and eventually suspends on depleted battery

### Suspend notes and issues

- When a display is plugged into the USB C port, the laptop appears to suspend, the display shuts off, the external display shuts off and there is no fan noise. However, the LED stays lit green. Pressing the power button or lifting the lid presents the GDM screen after a brief delay as though resuming from suspend.
