## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version       | EC Version         | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 20.10 | 2020-11-23_a5ed282 | 2020-11-23_a5ed282 | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle brightness

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [ ] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [ ] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [ ] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [ ] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- Power button is not disabled when the machine is closed and unplugged.
- Don't have a USB-C charger (of high enough capacity) to test with.

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Left USB Type A
- [X] Right USB Type A
- [ ] Left USB Type C w/ Thunderbolt
- [X] MicroSD card slot
- [X] Headphone jack
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [ ] Combo jack mic
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- My USB 3.0 flash drive worked the first time I plugged it into the left port. The first time I plugged it into the right port, it was not detected, with dmesg saying "usb usb4-port1: Cannot enable. Maybe the USB cable is bad?" The second time I tried this port, the drive was detected and I was able to read from it, although dmesg continued repeating that message.
- The USB-C port worked for a display and keyboard/mouse. When attempting to use a Thunderbolt hard drive enclosure, the drive showed up, but I was not able to mount any of its partitions, and was also unable to repartition (dmesg said "ahci 0000:03:00.0: ACI controller unavailable!", then "ata3: failed to resume link (SControl FFFFFFFF)" and "ata3: SATA link down".)
- 3.5mm Combo jack doesn't have input.
- 3.5mm headphone (not combo) plugged into the combo jack seemed to be missing a channel.

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Type C DP
- [X] Type C DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- All displays on the DisplayPort daisy-chain (via USB-C) must be mirrored with each other.

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [X] Bluetooth mouse
- [X] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] System prompts and eventually suspends on depleted battery

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes

