## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version       | EC Version         |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 21.10 | 2022-01-06_c73e482 | 2022-01-06_c73e482 |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle brightness

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [X] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click
- [X] Middle click (three finger tap/click)

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Left USB Type A
- [X] Right USB Type A
- [X] Left USB Type C w/ Thunderbolt
- [X] MicroSD card slot
- [X] Headphone jack
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- System still doesn't suspend when a USB-C or Thunderbolt device is connected; not a regression.

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Type C DP
- [X] Type C DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- DisplayPort mirrored daisy chain works; with MST for non-daisy-chain, only one display will work at a time. Not a regression.

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] WiFi connects with expected performance
- [X] Bluetooth mouse

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [X] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [X] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [X] 150 suspend successful

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes

## Hardware compatibility

- [X] RAM
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [ ] Storage
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [ ] TPM
    - [ ] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
