## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version       | EC Version         |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 2022-11-21_b337ac6 | 2022-11-21_b337ac6 |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle brightness

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [X] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click
- [X] Middle click (three finger tap/click)

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Left USB Type A
- [X] Right USB Type A
- [X] Left USB Type C w/ Thunderbolt
- [X] MicroSD card slot
- [X] Headphone jack
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- System suspended but didn't resume with a Thunderbolt storage device connected; not a regression.
    - (Suspend/resume worked with a USB-C storage device connected.)

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Type C DP
- [X] Type C DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- DisplayPort daisy-chain is mirrored only with USB-C to USB-C, works properly with DP to USB-C;
  not a regression, not specific to lemp10, possibly a ViewSonic display issue.

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [X] Bluetooth speaker

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [X] 150 suspend successful
- [X] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [X] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [X] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [X] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)

### Suspend notes and issues

- Power LED remains orange when system is powered off and plugged in even after charging is finished (OS reports Fully Charged when powered on); matches current behavior.

## Hardware compatibility

- [X] RAM
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [X] Storage
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Any M.2 SATA drive (slot 2 only)
    - [X] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1:
                - Read: 3316, 1062, 428, 37.
                - Write: 2603, 553, 315, 125.
            - [X] Slot 2:
                - Read: 3068, 1020, 671, 34.
                - Write: 2248, 580, 279, 105.
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1:
                - Read: 4232, 1164, 1033, 61.
                - Write: 2108, 781, 333, 155.
            - [X] Slot 2:
                - Read: 2828, 896, 1046, 57.
                - Write: 2371, 618, 268, 106.
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1:
                - Read: 2288, 772, 397, 40.
                - Write: 1819, 653, 767, 57.
            - [X] Slot 2:
                - Read: 2228, 370, 278, 14.
                - Write: 479, 641, 625, 100.
        - [X] Any M.2 SATA drive (slot 2 only)
            - Read: 537, 305, 373, 23.
            - Write: 499, 224, 315, 50.
- [X] TPM
    - [X] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
