## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version |
|---------------|----------------|--------------|------------|
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 1.07.03      | 1.09.02    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [ ] Touchpad Lock
- [ ] Mic mute hotkey
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [ ] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [ ] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- Touchpad lock hotkey doesn't do anything yet.
- Mic mute hotkey toggles LCD. We'll have to have EC modified to send mic mute scan code.
- Suspend is currently broken, but hotkey seems to be making the attempt.
- Keyboard backlight has an extra zone (4 total). Since system76-dkms accounts for only 3 by default (left, middle, right), the furthest right zone (numpad) is stuck on blue. I think system76-dkms will need to have an extra zone to account for the fourth keyboard zone.

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type C / Thunderbolt (x2)
- [ ] Thunderbolt devices plugged in before suspend do not block suspend
- [ ] Thunderbolt devices plugged in during suspend do not block resume
- [x] microSD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [ ] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- Combo jack's mic is not detected in Pop 22.04. In Ubuntu 24.04 with the Linux quirk, it prompts and works great. Just need the same quirk applied to the Jammy kernel.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [ ] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- When booting in clamshell mode, ecryption dialog displays on USB-C external display, but not on HDMI external display.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [ ] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [ ] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [ ] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend notes and issues

- Machine does not enter suspend. Screen locks and goes blank, but machine never suspends. It's trying to do S0ix instead of S3.
- C3 is the highest power state

## Hardware compatibility

- [ ] RAM
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
    - [x] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
- [ ] Storage
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN570 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Crucial P310 (PCIe Gen 4)
    - [ ] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN570 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Crucial P310 (PCIe Gen 4)
- [ ] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [ ] No TPM errors in dmesg & journalctl logs after 150 suspends
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- SATA drives are not supported.
