# Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | a9ca1e0      | a9ca1e0    | Both                    |

## Checklist

x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
    - [x] Bottom-right click
- [x] Middle click
    - [x] Bottom-middle or dual-button click
- [x] Tap to click
    - [x] Left click
    - [x] Right-zone or two-finger click
    - [x] Middle-zone or three-finger click
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left Back USB Type A
- [x] Left Front USB Type A
- [x] Right Back USB Type C w/ Thunderbolt 
- [x] Right Front USB Type C w/ Thunderbolt
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Microphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] spdif jack
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- USB devices plugged in to type-c/thunderbolt ports are hot pluggable, but not thunderbolt and pcie devices.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [ ] HDMI port audio
- [x] Mini display port
- [ ] Mini display port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [ ] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [ ] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [ ] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [ ] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [ ] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- External display audio doesn't appear as an option in the sound settings app if external display was connected when the system was booted unless the sound settings app is closed and the internal display is closed or opened and then the sound settings app is reopened. If external display audio is available in the sound settings app, it remains an option after the external display is disconnected, at least until the sound settings app is closed and reopnened. Additionally external display audio will once again not be an option when the system is rebooted until once again the sound settings app is closed and the internal display is opened or closed.
- If the laptop is rebooted with the lid closed the decryption dialog does not show on the external display.
- With HDMI and miniDP, the laptop boots and logs in to desktop if internal display is open. If internal display is closed it frequently fails to boot to desktop.
    - I have verified this behavior with a Samsung 980, WD Blue SN550, and a WD Green SN350.
    - This does not happen with a Samsung 970, I was always able to get to a user session with that drive as the OS drive.
    - It does seem like the problem drive needs to be the OS drive to trigger the issue.
- With a type-c display that is not a thunderbolt display, I was only able to get output on the external display if the external display was plugged in after the system is powered on but before logging in to a user session. The type-c display would not work across reboots if it remained plugged in when the system powered off and then back on.
- With all of the other display issues I have not tested daisy chaining yet.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [x] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend notes and issues

- The 20 manual suspends did pass, but only after I had blacklisted psmouse. Before blacklisting psmouse there were several resumes where the touchpad did not function.

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
    - [x] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Western Digital Green SN350 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Western Digital Green SN350 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [x] No TPM errors in dmesg & journalctl logs after 150 suspends
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
