## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version             | EC Version       |
|---------------|----------------|--------------------------|------------------|
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 24.04 | AHP839\_V1.0.9\_AK\_SUB2 | /03/18\_18:49:03 |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

- [x] Fn lock
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Mic mute
- [x] Touchpad lock
- [x] Brightness level toggle
- [x] Airplane mode
- [ ] Display toggle
- [x] Screen brightness down
- [x] Screen brightness up

### Hot key notes and issues

- Display toggle doesn't currently work in COSMIC, but the hotkey is emitting the correct Super+P sequence on press/release.

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [ ] Right click
- [ ] Middle click
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- The default behavior for this machine should have the [click areas change](https://github.com/pop-os/system76-driver/blob/master/system76driver/actions.py#L1085) to make the bottom right corner right click instead of two finger right click because of the two clickpad button design. This action doesn't do anything in COSMIC yet. Two finger right click and three finger middle click are working as expected.

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Left USB Type C (x2)
- [x] microSD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + HDMI + internal
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected
- [x] Occulink port works with eGPU

### Displays notes and issues

- No notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [ ] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [ ] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend notes and issues

- C3 is the highest power state it reaches.
- Battery drain during suspend is high.
- With lid closed, machine shows resume events in journal logs.

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs (make sure to test with no SODIMMs if system has some integrated RAM, e.g. Lemur Pro)
    - [x] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Crucial T700 (PCIe Gen 5)
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Crucial T700 (PCIe Gen 5)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [x] No TPM errors in dmesg & journalctl logs after 150 suspends
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- CSODIMMs do not appear to be supported. Upon first boot with them installed, there is a blue dialog explaining this, and they run at 3200 MT/s.
- The gen5 drive ran at gen4 speeds, since the slots are only gen4.
