## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version        | EC Version          | Before or after suspend |
|---------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 2023-05-03\_785047a | 2023-04-24\_4c4c1d0 | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness level

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [x] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [x] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [x] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- Holding the power button for ~10 seconds while the machine is suspended and not charging will force a shutdown. Shorter presses are correctly ignored. I don't believe this is a regression from past models though.

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Left USB Type C
  - [x] Thunderbolt dock
- [x] SD card slot
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- No notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [ ] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [ ] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes

## Hardware compatibility

- [ ] RAM
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [ ] Storage
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN570 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Any M.2 SATA drive
    - [ ] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN570 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Any M.2 SATA drive
- [x] TPM `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- WD Blue SN570 disappears occasionally, and doesn't come back with reboots. Unplugging main battery is necessary to get it back.
  - WD Blue SN550 has the same problem.
- Soldered RAM doesn't seem to be working right. With an 8gb SODIMM, Settings > About shows that I have 16gb total installed, but system monitor and `free -h` both show 8gb total.
  - System does not boot with only the soldered RAM.
  - System does not boot with a 16gb SODIMM installed.
- Power light blinks orange when the system is supposedly powered off. Even if I unplug main battery and plug it back in, the light starts blinking as soon as main battery is plugged back in.
