## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version               | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
|---------------|----------------|----------------------------|------------|-------------------------|
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | ARB928_V00.01_T0021ASY2_ms | 01.03      | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Mute sound (F1)
- [x] Volume down (F2)
- [x] Volume up (F3)
- [ ] Touchpad Lock (F6)
- [x] Keyboard backlight level cycle (F7, 3 levels)
- [x] Airplane Mode (F9)
- [x] Brightness Down (F11)
- [x] Brightnes Up (F12)
- [x] Camera on/off (EXTERNAL SWITCH, left side of machine)
- [x] Camera on/off indicator light lights up orange when camera is disabled

### Hot key notes and issues

- Touchpad disable is not working on either test machine. It also doesn't work on the older NM16AC-R t&e unit we received.

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [x] "Right-click with click in bottom right corner..." (region click) 
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- I added the region click test here, since that may yet be set as the default on this machine.

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A (2x)
- [x] Right USB Type A (1x)
- [x] Left USB Type C
- [x] SD card slot
- [ ] Headphone jack (same port, just not a combo headset)
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [ ] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- Internal mic doesn't show up in sound settings
- All headphones are detected as combo headsets, so it tries to set the mic to a device that doesn't exist. Probably just needs to be added to our headset fixup.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- MST (daisy-chained DP) is affected by this bug: https://github.com/pop-os/linux/issues/187
- Displays that charge and over USB-C seem to have a problem maintaining a connection while the system draws a lot of power. The connection drops out completely, disconnecting the display, stopping charging, disconnecting any USB devices I had docked to the monitor (mouse, keyboard, etc.), and allowing the monitor to go into standby mode. It isn't the physical USB-C connection, because turning the display off and back on again makes everything reattach and work as expected. Because of the way pop-shell behaves, however, I have to reorganize all of the windows and stacks that I had open across all of my workspaces, which is very annoying. I recommend we consider this bug to be a release-blocker.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)

### Suspend notes and issues

- When unplugging the charger (both barrel and USB-C) for the first time in any user session, the screen brightness dims all the way. This is annoying, but pang10 and pang11 both do the same thing. I thought it was just a U-class AMD thing but, Dev One does not have this problem.
- Note: I discharged the battery from ~85% to 25% so I could perform the charging test. Almost immediately when the battery hit 25%, the "low battery" alert started going off, and the percentage reported that it was at 5%. I'll do another cycle to see if this was just a fluke.
    - Addendum: I saw the other unit suddenly power off while stressing below 25%, but only once. Will continue testing.

## Hardware compatibility

- [ ] Storage
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [ ] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- Does not support SATA drives
- Skipped NVMe testing for now. All initial testing was done with a 500gb Samsung 980 Pro.
