## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version       | EC Version         | BITS Tag/Size      |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 2025-07-29_6f4c4bf | 2025-07-29_6f4c4bf | 0432 / 17" (large) |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click
- [X] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [X] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Left USB Type-A
- [X] Left USB Type-C (Front)
- [X] Left USB Type-C (Back)
- [X] Right USB Type-A
- [X] SD card slot
- [X] Kensington lock slot    
- [X] Internal speakers
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Headphone jack
- [X] Microphone jack
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [X] S/PDIF jack
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Mini DisplayPort
- [X] Mini DisplayPort audio
- [X] Type-C DP
- [X] Type-C DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + HDMI + internal
- [X] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [X] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- When rebooted w/ lid closed, decryption dialog shows on Mini DP, but not HDMI.
- When booting with lid closed, GDM suspends after decryption prompt; able to be woken up via external keyboard; suspends a second time, but stays awake after that. GNOME then suspends once more after login; able to be woken up again via external keyboard, then shows desktop as expected.
- When booting with HDMI and USB-C DP plugged in (and lid open), internal display has bad performance after unplugging the external displays.

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] WiFi connects with expected performance
    - 298/211 at factory
- [X] Ethernet connects with expected performance
    - 364/265 at factory
- [X] Bluetooth speaker
- [X] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [X] 150 suspend successful
- [X] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [X] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [X] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [X] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [X] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [ ] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend notes and issues

- powertop only shows Pkg C2 and C3 getting percentages after idling.
    - Not a regression (same behavior on proprietary firmware).

## Hardware compatibility

- [X] RAM
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
        - [X] Maximum: 2 DIMMs (2x 32GB @ 2666MHz, 64GB total)
        - [X] Minimum: 1 DIMM (1x 8GB @ 3200MHz, 8GB total)
            - [X] Slot 1 only
            - [X] Slot 2 only
    - [X] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
- [X] Storage
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
        - M.2 Slot 1 (OS) + 2.5" (extra)
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Any M.2 SATA drive (WD Green WDS120G2G0B)
            - [X] Slot 1
    - [X] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1: 2884, 1813, 505, 20; 2269, 1103, 809, 60.
            - [X] Slot 2: 2910, 1769, 503, 27; 2275, 1146, 849, 78.
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1: 2899, 2018, 737, 50; 2596, 1545, 412, 162.
            - [X] Slot 2: 3043, 2305, 746, 76; 2561, 1245, 447, 130.
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1: 2332, 1200, 271, 18; 1313, 871, 567, 84.
            - [X] Slot 2: 2153, 1250, 299, 18; 1501, 895, 496, 44.
        - [X] Any M.2 SATA drive (WD Green WDS120G2G0B)
            - [X] Slot 1: 520, 336, 12, 6; 194, 156, 12, 6.
- [X] TPM
    - [X] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [X] No TPM errors in dmesg & journalctl logs after 150 suspends
- [X] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- oryp5 shipped with 2666 MHz (up to 64GB) or 3000 (up to 32GB) RAM.
    - We have no 3000 MHz DDR4 SO-DIMM RAM in the lab.
    - [X] 64GB (2x32GB) of 2666 MHz works at 2666 MHz.
    - [X] 32GB (2x16GB) of 2933 MHz works at 2933 MHz.
    - [X] 16GB (2x8GB) of 3200 MHz works at 3200 MHz.
    - [X] 8GB (1x8GB) of 3200 MHz works at 3200 MHz in either slot.
    - [X] 48GB (32GB + 16GB) of 3200 MHz works at 3200 MHz. 
    - Conclusion: while I can't test the exact maximum spec, RAM works on this firmware beyond the maximum spec.
- After 150 suspends, three `fwupd[xxxx]: xx:xx:xx.xxx FuPluginTpm failed to get eventlog reconstruction: no event log data` lines were logged (relatively early in the time frame of the 150-suspend set, but at different times).
