## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 20.10 | F4m Z5       | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] USB 3 Type A ports
- [x] USB Type C port(s)
- [x] Line out jack
- [ ] Line in jack
- [x] Microphone in jack
- [ ] spdif jack

### Ports notes and issues

- There are three output options for S/PDIF. None gave me output with either of the S/PDIF converter boxes I have here.
- Line in does not work.
- Mic in seems very quiet even at full volume, but it does work.

## Displays and graphics

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Display port
- [x] Display port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Display config toggle (Super + P)
- [ ] Discrete AMD graphics card
- [x] Discrete Nvidia graphics card
- [x] Multiple GPUs
- [x] Boots with 4 GPUs

### Displays notes and issues

- Tested with 1x and 4x 2080Ti's
- Did not check an AMD card since we don't sell them in Mega. 

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- Wireless card was unseated from its slot. I was able to reseat it where it needs to be and now it works.

## Suspend

- [x] Single suspend successful
- [x] 150 suspend successful

### Suspend notes and issues

- 150 suspends failed a couple times (random reboots), but I suspect I was just setting too low of values for the minimum delay. Once I upped `--s3-min-delay` up to 30 sec, it passed on the first try.

