## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 20.10 | 1.07.07a3    | 1.07.08    | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (3 finger tap and click)
- [x] Palm rejection

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A ports (USB 2.0)
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] MicroSD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- USB-C is now persisting across suspend/resume cycles.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [ ] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.

### Displays notes and issues

- When rebooting the machine with the lid closed and an external display connected, the machine suspends after I sign in at GDM. To sign in with the lid closed, one must have an external keyboard, which can be used to quickly wake the machine when this happens, so it's not terribly inconvenient once you know to hit a few keys after signing in.
- Decryption dialog sometimes does not show on external display unless I hit Esc twice. When rebooting with external display connected and the lid open, the encryption prompt sometimes seems frozen until hitting Esc twice. Sometimes I see just the gray background with nothing on it, and sometimes I see the dialog, but the cursor does not blink and placeholder symbols do not appear when I type. Typing the password and hitting enter still unlocks the drive and takes me to GDM. I believe this freeze is what prevents the dialog from showing on the external display. Since this seems like a Plymouth bug, I filed it here: https://github.com/pop-os/plymouth-theme/issues/18 .

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] Open lid - system resumes
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] System prompts and eventually suspends on depleted battery

### Suspend notes and issues

- I did not test battery depletion in this run.

## Other notes

- Power scaling is still working as expected
