## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version    | BIOS Version       | EC Version         | Before or after suspend |
| --------------| ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!_OS 18.04 | 2020-04-06_e7c4683 | 2020-04-06_2d17acd | Before                  |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [ ] Touchpad Lock
- [ ] Turn off display
- [ ] Mute sound
- [ ] Volume down
- [ ] Volume up
- [ ] Brightness Down
- [ ] Brightnes Up
- [ ] Camera on/off
- [ ] Airplane Mode
- [ ] Suspend
- [ ] Play/Pause
- [ ] Keyboard backlight on/off and brightness

### Hot key notes and issues

- Brightness up/down is a little choppy. Not a show-stopper but would be a nice improvement to smooth out the transitions.

### Touchpad

- [ ] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [ ] Touchpad edge scrolling
- [ ] Tap to click
- [ ] Touchpad speed adjustable
- [ ] Left click
- [ ] Right click (Two finger click)

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Monitor Related)

- [ ] Left USB Type A
- [ ] Right USB Type A
- [ ] Left USB Type C
- [ ] SD card slot
- [ ] Combo jack headphones
- [ ] Combo jack mic
- [ ] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

No notes

## Displays

- [ ] HDMI port
- [ ] HDMI port audio
- [ ] Display config toggle (span/cloned/internal/external)
- [ ] Type C DP
- [ ] Type C DP audio
- [ ] Display config toggle (span/cloned/internal/external)
- [ ] Dual external display + internal
- [ ] Daisy chain display port + internal
- [ ] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [ ] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.

### Displays notes and issues

- Display toggle works. However, the pop-up display does not give the opportunity to toggle between options and instead switches to the next in the list. An improvement would be to not change display setup until the function key is released.

## Network and bluetooth

- [ ] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [ ] Bluetooth speaker
- [ ] Bluetooth mic
- [ ] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

No notes

## Suspend

- [ ] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] System prompts and eventually suspends on depleted battery

### Suspend notes and issues

No notes
