## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version       | EC Version         | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 20.04 | 2021-01-19_d6d37c0 | 2021-01-19_d6d37c0 | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight Toggle


### Hot key notes and issues

- There is no indicator to say if the camera is on or off. Not a firmware thing, but its a bit confusing.

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Two finger tap to right click

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Left USB Type A
- [X] Right USB Type A
- [X] Left USB Type C
- [ ] SD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- no MicroSD card on hand, couldn't test (bflanagin)

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [ ] Type C DP
- [ ] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual display external + internal
- [ ] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.

### Displays notes and issues

- No type C DP cables on hand, couldn't test (bflanagin)
- Only one external monitor on hand, couldn't test "Dual external display + internal" (bflanagin)

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth mouse
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No Notes

## Suspend

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] System prompts and eventually suspends on depleted battery

### Suspend notes and issues

 - In the 150 test when I had two NVMe drives installed the test would fail and cause a hard lock up. With only one drive installed the test went fine. This occurs in both 2021-01-19_d6d37c0 and the previous firmware.
