
## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version        | EC Version          | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------- |
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 20.04 | 2020-12-04\_0e80285 | 2020-12-04\_0e80285 | Before                  |

### Note: tested with 20.10 Intel debug iso #10

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up/down

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [x] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [x] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [x] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- When no chargers are connected and the lid is closed: the power button does not power the machine on (good), but holding the button makes the power light blink orange. I think this is a very nice touch, as it sort of gives the user some feedback, instead of the machine just not turning on.

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger click/tap)
- [x] Palm rejection works

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Left USB Type C
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] SD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- no notes

## displays

- [x] hdmi port
- [x] hdmi port audio
- [x] type c dp
- [x] type c dp audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [ ] Fn + F7 hotkey toggles display modes
- [x] Super + P hotkey toggles display modes

### Displays notes and issues

- Fn + F7 does not toggle display modes, but Super + P does.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [ ] System prompts and eventually suspends on depleted battery

### Suspend notes and issues

- I was prompted when the battery ran low, but the machine shut down instead of suspending when it ran out.
