# Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    | Ubuntu 22.04   | 9560b2e      | 9560b2e    | Both                    |

## Checklist

x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

## Power button notes and issues

- This system does not have an external power button

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] SD card slot
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Microphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] spdif jack
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Mini display port
- [x] Mini display port audio
- [ ] Type C DP
- [ ] Type C DP audio
- [x] Thunderbolt DP
- [x] Thunderbolt DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Reaches user session.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with min-DP monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- Issues with Type C DP. Type C DP does not work with any ViewSonic displays I tested with*.
- If system is in integrated graphics mode and external display is connected to Type C DP when system is booted the system hangs on boot.
- On LG Ultra wide display in hybrid graphics mode Type C DP does not work until the external display is connected to thunderbolt port first or system is rebooted with external display plugged in to Type C DP*.
  - System fails to reach a user session if external display is plugged in to Type C DP and internal display is closed.
  - External display plugged in to Type C DP does not turn back on when system resumes from suspend.
- *issue also present with proprietary firmware.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth notes and issues

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 50 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)

### Suspend & Power notes and issues

- 150 suspend test was performed in Pop!\_OS 22.04

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
  - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [x] Storage
  - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Solidigm P44 (PCIe Gen 4)
  - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Solidigm P44 (PCIe Gen 4)
- [x] TPM
  - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
