## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version        | EC Version          | Before or after suspend |
|---------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|
| INCOMPLETE    | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 2023-04-03\_dfd1b73 | 2023-04-03\_dfd1b73 | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Play/Pause
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] SD card slot
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Microphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] spdif jack
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- Something seems a bit odd with the built-in speakers. The front-left/front-right sound demo cuts in and out, but all other audio playback seems normal. Will investigate more.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Mini display port
- [x] Mini display port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [ ] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- Initially, Front USB-C stopped doing DP after the current firmware update. It definitely worked on the last firmware, and the port has a DisplayPort logo next to it, so I assume we expect it to work. The TB USB-C port carried DP as expected, but I haven't yet tested Thunderbolt functionality on it.
- However, USB-C seems to now be handling displayport fine now. The only note is that it seemed to only start handling displayport after a USB-C to displayport connection was made on Thunderbolt once. 

- Rebooting with the lid-closed is in a bad way. 
    USB-C/DP when using the USB-C port generally reaches decrypt but hangs thereafter until the lip is opened. At least once, USB-C/DP worked, though with suspends between decrypt and login, and login and session.  

    USB-C/DP when using the Thunderbolt port reaches a user session reliably, with suspends in decrypt-to-login (sometimes) and login-to-session (everytime I've seen).

    HDMI just doesn't show the decrypt prompt. Opening the lid and proceeding through the boot works though. Entering the password with the lid closed (I waited until the system had what seemed enough time to reach decrypt) allows the system to decrypt, but the system suspends and - due to never reacquiring the HDMI display - will almost immediately suspend after being woken unless you open the lid. 

    Mini-DP shows the decrypt prompt, but suspends after decrypt, and runs into the same issue of never recovering the external monitor without opening the lip. 

    With both HDMI and Mini-DP, it feels as though, during both the decrypt-to-login and login-to-session transitions that the nvidia driver is dropping the external monitor. If this is the case, it is probably causing the system to detect that there is no external monitor and the lid is closed, triggering suspend. This is mostly speculation.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [x] Suspends with bluetooth device connected

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes

## Hardware compatibility

- [ ] RAM
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [ ] Storage
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [ ] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Crucial P3 Plus 4tb (PCIe Gen 4)
    - [ ] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [ ] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [ ] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [ ] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Crucial P3 Plus 4tb (PCIe Gen 4)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- M.2 SATA not supported
