# Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version       | EC Version         | Kernel version         |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ---------------------- |
| C0OMPLETE     | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 2023-09-19_16ef69c | 2023-09-19_16ef69c | 6.4.6-76060406-generic |

## Checklist

x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

## Power button notes and issues

- This system does not have an external power button

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click
- [X] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [X] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Left-Front USB Type-A
- [X] Left-Back USB Type-A
- [X] Right Front USB Type-C
- [X] Right Back USB Typpe-C w/ Thunderbolt
- [X] MicroSD card slot
- [X] Headphone jack
- [X] Microphone jack
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [X] S/PDIF jack
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- MicroSD card slot took two tries to work (got "mmc0: Timeout waiting for hardware cmd interrupt." the first time).

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Mini display port
- [X] Mini display port audio
- [X] Type-C DP
- [X] Type-C DP audio
- [X] Thunderbolt DP
- [X] Thunderbolt DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [X] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [X] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with Mini-DP monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- Type-C DP shows a message (on the internal display) that use of the Thunderbolt port is recommended instead, as expected.
    - Type-C DP output works anyway on the second plug-in.
- System goes to sleep after login if booted while closed with external displays plugged in; can be woken up and used normally.
    - After waking up, Mini DisplayPort is not detected after wake until re-plug (HDMI is detected).
    - Not a regression from current firmware.

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [X] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [X] Bluetooth speaker
- [X] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth notes and issues

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [X] 150 suspend successful
- [X] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [X] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards.
- [X] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [X] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [X] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)

### Suspend & Power notes and issues

- No notes

## Hardware compatibility

- [X] RAM
    - [X] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported (5600 MHz) is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
        - [X] 1x 8GB
        - [X] 2x 32GB
- [X] Storage
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Western Digital Black SN850X (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
    - [X] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
                - Read: 3169, 2167, 528, 44.
                - Write: 2284, 1445, 1257, 284.
            - [X] Slot 2
                - Read: 2928, 2089, 526, 43.
                - Write: 2284, 1440, 1257, 277.
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
                - Read: 4457, 1240, 927, 49.
                - Write: 3576, 731, 169, 63.
            - [X] Slot 2
                - Read: 4664, 1235, 932, 50.
                - Write: 3588, 930, 169, 79.
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
                - Read: 2375, 828, 678, 36.
                - Write: 1769, 694, 403, 63.
            - [X] Slot 2
                - Read: 2274, 882, 485, 36.
                - Write: 1557, 670, 716, 63.
        - [X] Western Digital Black SN850X (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
                - Read: 4719, 1135, 613, 46.
                - Write: 3615, 815, 934, 66.
            - [X] Slot 2
                - Read: 4678, 1066, 901, 44.
                - Write: 4225, 769, 1067, 66.
- [X] TPM
    - [X] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [X] No TPM errors in dmesg or journalctl after 150 suspends
- [X] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- SN850X had one boot where it wasn't detected by the firmware immediately after moving from Slot 1 to Slot 2 (RAM had also been swapped from 2x32GB 4800 to 2x16GB 5600).
    - Fixed itself after reseating the drive in Slot 2 (removing & reinstalling).
    - Trying to reproduce, saw the system get stuck on the System76 logo instead; powering the system off and on again (without reseating) got it to boot.
    - Drive also wasn't recognized when I tried to reboot into a firmware update (to downgrade).
    - Recreated similar weirdness with this drive & slot on current firmware (2023-05-17_9560b2e), so this is not a regression. This drive was not part of the model's previous certification tests.
    - Drive serial: AS011723 (224519803635)
    - Issue didn't present again re-testing with the same physical drive a week later.