## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    | Ubuntu   22.04 | 05cfb1a      | 05cfb1a    | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Keyboard backlight cycle

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [x] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [x] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [x] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
    - [x] Bottom-right click
    - [x] Two-finger click
- [x] Middle click
    - [x] Bottom-middle click
    - [x] Three-finger click
- [x] Tap to click
    - [x] Left click
    - [x] Right click
    - [x] Middle click
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces


### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Left USB Type C
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] SD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- When booting/rebooting with an external DP over Thunderbolt monitor I get three sets of behaviour:
  1) Encrypted Pop, Internal monitor active: 
   - The System76 splash screen displays on the external monitor, but the "press space bar for recovery" screen does not, nor does the decrypt prompt. 
   - If I unplug and replug during the decrypt prompt, it does display on the prompt on the external display.

  2) Encrypted Pop, Internal monitor off:
   - No splash screen, recovery prompt, or decrypt prompt display on the external monitor.
   - If I wait long enough for the system to reach the decrypt prompt and then unplug and replug the display, the prompt work displays, and login works. 
  
  3) Unencrypted Pop, Internal on or off:
   - Looks like, regardless of internal, no splash screen, recovery prompt, or decrypt prompts display.
   - Unplugging and replugging the external display seems to work.

  Given that this is a thunderbolt device, and we have known issues with Thunderbolt devices on boot, and that it isn't a regression (we didn't explicitly test for this previously), I don't consider it a blocker, but did want to note it. Beyond that, the system is not rendered unbootable by this, and the system boots correctly otherwise if a Thunderbolt/DP monitor is plugged in. 

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
