## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version  | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ----------  | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    |  Ubuntu 22.04  |    b337ac6   |   b337ac6   | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Keyboard backlight cycle

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [x] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (barrel or USB-C)
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and the barrel charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click
- [X] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [X] Left USB Type C
- [X] Right USB Type C
- [x] SD card slot
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Type C DP
- [X] Type C DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- No notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected.

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes

## Hardware compatibility

- [X] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- If booted unplugged, the WD SN550 operate significantly more slowly - even after AC is reattached. Conversely, if the system is booted with AC attached, it will operate at the full and proper speed. In either case, the drive works, and doesn't have any issues outside of this. Other drives do not exhibit this behaviour.
