## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version        | EC Version          | Before or after suspend | Kernel Version         |
|---------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|------------------------|
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 22.04 | 2024-04-29\_15016a0 | 2024-04-29\_15016a0 | Both                    | 6.9.3-76060903-generic |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Mic mute
- [X] Mute speakers
- [X] Keyboard backlight level cycle
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Power button

- [X] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is powered off, and not connected to a charger (USB-C)
- [X] External power button is disabled when the lid is closed, the machine is suspended, and not connected to a charger (USB-C)
- [X] External power button turns on the machine when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected
- [X] External power button wakes the machine from suspend when the lid is closed and a USB-C charger is connected

## Power button notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click
- [X] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [X] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Left USB Type-A
- [X] Right USB Type-A
- [X] Left USB 3.2 Type-C
- [X] Left USB Type-C w/ Thunderbolt
- [X] MicroSD card slot
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Type C DP (TB port only)
- [X] Type C DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [X] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [X] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- No notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [X] Bluetooth speaker
- [X] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [X] 150 suspend successful
- [X] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [X] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [X] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [X] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [X] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [X] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend notes and issues

- Still reaches C6, C10, and C1E (same as last firmware).

## Hardware compatibility

- [X] RAM
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
        - [X] 1 x 8GB (built-in)
        - [X] 1 x 8GB (built-in) + 1 x 48GGB
    - [X] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported (4800 MHz) is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
- [] Storage
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [X] Western Digital SN720 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1
            - [X] Slot 2
        - [ ] Crucial P3 Plus 4TB (PCIe Gen 4)
            - This lab drive is dead & not shipped in this product, removing from checklist.
    - [X] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1:
                - Read: 3404, 1263, 737, 43.
                - Write: 2849, 996, 956, 111.
            - [X] Slot 2:
                - Read: 3215, 1222, 655, 43.
                - Write: 2066, 813, 217, 114.
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
            - [X] Slot 1:
                - Read: 5066, 3551, 1143, 75.
                - Write: 4055, 2546, 720, 273.
            - [X] Slot 2:
                - Read: 4733, 3501, 1135, 73.
                - Write: 4338, 2606, 709, 272.
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1:
                - Read: 2390, 1693, 717, 53.
                - Write: 1840, 1696, 717, 299.
            - [X] Slot 2:
                - Read: 2388, 1523, 669, 45.
                - Write: 1565, 1657, 683, 321.
        - [X] Western Digital SN720 (PCIe Gen 3)
            - [X] Slot 1:
                - Read: 3365, 1979, 915, 48.
                - Write: 2317, 1763, 678, 292.
            - [X] Slot 2:
                - Read: 2311, 1865, 950, 48.
                - Write: 2373, 1708, 672, 291.
        - [ ] Crucial P3 Plus 4TB (PCIe Gen 4)
            - This lab drive is dead & not shipped in this product, removing from checklist.
- [X] TPM
    - [X] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [X] No TPM errors in dmesg & journalctl logs after 150 suspends
- [X] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists
- [X] IME is off by default

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
