## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version      | EC Version        | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | ----------------------- |
| COMPLETE      | Pop!\_OS 20.04 | 2020-08-07_483d42d| 2020-08-07_483d42d| Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [X] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [X] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Play/Pause
- [X] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [X] Tap to click
- [X] Left click
- [X] Right click

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [X] Back-Left USB Type A
- [X] Front-Left USB Type A
- [X] Right USB Type A
- [X] Right USB Type C
- [X] SD card slot
- [X] Headphone jack
- [X] Microphone jack
- [X] Combo jack headphones
- [X] Combo jack mic
- [X] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [ ] spdif jack
- [X] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- Thunderbolt seems to be working properly (tested with a Thunderbolt HDD enclosure.)
- Don't have a S/PDIF device to test with.

## Displays

- [X] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] Mini display port
- [X] Mini display port audio
- [X] Type C DP
- [X] Type C DP audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- Daisy-chaining didn't work with USB-C (Laptop -> USB-C Display -> DisplayPort Display), only with Mini DisplayPort. With USB-C, the second external display did turn on, but it was just mirroring the first external display.
- Had to turn the second DisplayPort display off and on again for daisy-chaining to start working properly.
- Connecting HDMI caused DisplayPort daisy-chain to stop working (only internal display was working.) Turning displays off and back on gets some of them working again, but I was not able to get internal + 3x external working.
  - If I close the lid, then all three external displays work normally.

## Network and bluetooth

- [X] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [X] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [X] Bluetooth mouse
- [X] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend

- [X] Close lid - system suspends
- [X] 150 suspend successful
- [X] System prompts and eventually suspends on depleted battery

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes

