# Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    | Ubuntu 24.04/22.04 | 3de6462      | 3de6462    | Both                    |

## Checklist

x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Mic Mute
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness down

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
    - [x] Bottom-right click
    - [x] Two-finger click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [x] Tap to click
    - [x] Left click
    - [x] Right click (two finger tap)
    - [x] Middle click (three finger tap)
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with HDMI monitor connected
- [x] Laptop boots and logs in to desktop with DP/USB-C monitor connected

### Displays notes and issues

- There might be an issue around HDMI being unplugged when the laptop is closed. Though not able to be reproduced, twice during testing removing an external HDMI display from the system while the lid was closed - and triggering suspend as a consequency - seemed to render the system incapable of resuming. Due to both the infrequency and the lack of reliable reproduction under strict testing, this is not considered a blocker at this time.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected afterwards
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & build the Linux kernel.
- [x] Laptop charges to full as expected (drain it to ~25% before charging)
- [x] Laptop reaches at least a C8 power state after idling for ~10 minutes (in `powertop`, in the "Idle stats" tab, the `Pkg(HW)` column should have a C8 percentage >0%)

### Suspend notes and issues

- Automate suspend tests completed in Pop 22.04.

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
    - [x] Speed of highest frequency RAM supported is correctly reported in `dmidecode -t 17`
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN570 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN570 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists
    - [x] No TPM errors in dmesg & journalctl logs after 150 suspends
- [x] KVM `/dev/kvm` file exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes

### Final notes

- For this process, as we are in the middle of moving from 22.04 LTS to 24.04 LTS, both were tested. Each OS passes the checklist. 24.04 was given greater focus in the process, and 22.04 was only tested to the checklist, with little time spent outside of that.
