## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    |  Ubuntu 22.04  | b337ac6      |  b337ac6   | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [X] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [X] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [ ] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- The four-finger paradigm used under Pop is not used under Ubuntu. However, the three-fingered gnome paradigm present in Ubuntu works well.

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Left USB Type C
- [x] SD card slot
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [X] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- No notes

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [X] HDMI port audio
- [X] DP over Thunderbolt
- [X] DP over Thunderbolt audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- No Notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- While testing with the lab bluetooth speaker, I had difficulty with the sound test feature in settings. This was no a regression, and testing with other bluetooth speakers and headphones went fine. I think the bottom cover of the laptop might be degrading bluetooth sufficiently to impair the connection to the lab speaker. 

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected.

### Suspend notes and issues

- 150 suspend test excepted due to completion on Pop and successful completion of manual and extended suspends under Ubuntu.

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
