## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    |  Ubuntu 22.04  |    b337ac6   |  b337ac6   | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [X] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [X] Suspend
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- On AMOLED units, the "Turn off display" function is not supported. This is expected.

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [ ] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- The four finger Cosmic interaction paradigm is not functional under Ubuntu, nor is the three finger gnome paradigm once the System76 PPA is added and our drivers are fully upgraded and installed. This is a software, not a firmware issue.

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Back USB Type C
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Microphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [ ] spdif jack
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- The SPDIF port is not supported at current.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Mini display port
- [X] Mini display port audio
- [X] Type C DP
- [x] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- Ubuntu doesn't impliment encrytion out of the box, so lid-closed reboot is only tested for successfully reaching a user session.

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [X] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected.

### Suspend notes and issues

- Lock screen is slow to present on resume. 
- Originally, I had suspicion of a suspend related issue, but after pretty extensively looking at it, I believe it to be self-inflicted PEBKAC during early certification of this firmware release. Consequently, with the completion of other suspend tests, the 150 automated test cycle is being ommitted as it passed on Pop. 

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [x] Storage
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [X] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [X] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Any M.2 SATA drive
    - [X] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [X] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [X] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Any M.2 SATA drive
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- Oryp7 is PCIe 3, so gen 4 speeds are consequently capped.
