## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    |   Pop 22.04    |    b337ac6   |  b337ac6   | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [X] Volume down
- [X] Volume up
- [X] Brightness Down
- [X] Brightnes Up
- [X] Camera on/off
- [X] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [X] Keyboard backlight toggle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- On AMOLED units, the "Turn off display" function is not supported. This is expected.

## Touchpad

- [x] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [x] Right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [x] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- No notes.

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type A
- [x] Back USB Type C
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Microphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [ ] spdif jack
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- The SPDIF port is not supported at current. This is not a regression.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Mini display port
- [x] Mini display port audio
- [x] Type C DP
- [X] Type C DP audio
- [x] Dual external display + internal
- [x] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [x] Reboot w/ lid closed. Decryption dialog shows on external display.
- [x] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- Lid closed reboot with USB-C/Thunderbolt displays does not work. The decrypt prompt is never shown externally. However, opening the laptop and decrypting will successfully resolve to login, upon which the external is recognized. This is not a regression. 

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [X] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [x] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [x] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected.

### Suspend notes and issues

- No notes.

## Hardware compatibility

- [X] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with all possible SATA drives populated
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Any M.2 SATA drive
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Any M.2 SATA drive
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- Oryp7 is PCIe 3, so gen 4 speeds are consequently capped. 
- Charging behaviour is being problematic. While charging seems successful from below 90%, above 90% it seems to evidence previously witnessed charging issues where charge is held at rate of discharge. This is despite being on the default "custom" `charge-thresholds` map according the system76-power. This is frustrating, as prior EC fixes seemed to remedy this behaviour. This is not, however, a regression.