## Test Platform

| Test complete | OS Version     | BIOS Version | EC Version | Before or after suspend |
| ------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ----------------------- |
|   COMPLETE    |  Ubuntu 22.04  | 799ed79      | 799ed79    | Both                    |

## Checklist
x = pass | blank = fail | na = remove from list

## Hot Keys

Note: display toggle hotkey is in the displays section below.

- [x] Touchpad Lock
- [x] Turn off display
- [x] Mute sound
- [x] Volume down
- [x] Volume up
- [x] Brightness Down
- [x] Brightnes Up
- [x] Camera on/off
- [x] Airplane Mode
- [x] Suspend
- [x] Keyboard backlight on/off
- [x] Keyboard backlight brightness up
- [X] Keyboard backlight brightness down
- [x] Keyboard backlight cycle colors

### Hot key notes and issues

- No notes

## Touchpad

- [X] Touchpad two finger scrolling 
- [x] Tap to click
- [x] Left click
- [X] Right click
    - [x] Bottom-right click
- [x] Middle click (three finger tap/click for clickpads, click both buttons simultaneously for non-clickpad)
- [ ] Four finger swipe up or down changes workspaces

### Touchpad notes and issues

- Middle click without tap-to-click is achieved by clicking the bottom middle of the clickpad. This is consistent with the corner-click for right-click paradigm that Ubuntu uses. 
- The Four-Finger paradign does not work on Ubuntu. The three finger paradigm is also borken.

## Ports (Non Display Related)

- [x] Left USB Type A
- [x] Right USB Type C
- [x] Back USB Type C
- [x] Micro SD card slot
- [x] Headphone jack
- [x] Microphone jack
- [x] Combo jack headphones
- [x] Combo jack mic
- [x] Internal mic
- [x] Internal speakers
- [x] Plugging in headphone or combo jack mutes internal speakers

### Ports notes and issues

- Mic in works, but is incredibly faint from unpowered sources.

## Displays

- [x] HDMI port
- [x] HDMI port audio
- [x] Mini display port
- [X] Mini display port audio
- [X] Dual external display + internal
- [X] Close internal display. Monitors adjust correctly.
- [X] Triple external display via DP daisy chain + internal

### Displays notes and issues

- No notes

## Network and bluetooth

- [x] Wifi connects with expected performance
- [x] Ethernet connects with expected performance
- [x] Bluetooth speaker
- [x] Lock machine

### Network and bluetooth

- No notes

## Suspend & Power

- [x] Close lid - system suspends
- [ ] 150 suspend successful
- [x] Perform 20 manual suspends-- keyboard/touchpad are functional on every resume.
- [x] Power on while unplugged & run stress command.
- [X] System stays suspended for at least 15 minutes on battery power, then resumes as expected.

### Suspend notes and issues

- Given the stable suspend behaviour of a smaller automated 20 suspend run and of the 20 manual suspends, combined with 150 automated suspends passing on Pop, the automated 150 suspend test was omitted on Ubuntu.
- Under an all-threads stress test on battery, the threads cap at 500 MHz - this seems like aggressive throttling, and is to be power profile agnostic.

## Hardware compatibility

- [x] RAM
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with both the minimum and maximum supported amounts of RAM/DIMMs
- [x] Storage
    - [x] System boots and suspends/resumes with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
    - [x] Read and write speeds are within expectations with each of the following drive models (test each one in every possible slot):
        - [x] Samsung 970 Evo Plus (PCIe Gen 3)
        - [x] Samsung 980 Pro (PCIe Gen 4)
        - [x] Western Digital Blue SN550 (PCIe Gen 3)
- [x] TPM
    - [x] `/sys/class/tpm/tpm0` directory exists

### Hardware compatibility notes and issues

- No notes
